# Group Project Proposal

### Application Name: MarketMimic
### Group Members: Munir Adam, Marcus Dooley, Kenneth Emata, Muskan Madaan, Parmveer Nijjar

## Abstract
MarketMimic is a comprehensive web-based stock simulator designed to provide users with a realistic trading experience using real-time stock data without financial risk. It features real-time stock data and history for up to 50 symbols, customizable stock watchlists, and simulated trading using artificial currency. Users can track stock prices, receive notifications on price targets, and explore historical data through intuitive graphs. MarketMimic includes beginner tutorials designed to guide new users through the fundamentals of stock market investing, ensuring a smooth and informative introduction to the platform. 

## About our First Meeting
Our initial meeting was engaging and filled with diverse ideas and expertise. Each team member shares a solid skill set in web development languages like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, as well as proficiency in programming languages such as C/C++, Java, Python, and SQL. The idea of a stock simulator came up very early in our first brainstorming session and caught everyone's interest. It quickly became a central focus of our discussion. We found similar services online and even checked out a Roblox stock game for ideas on how to make our service stand out. We noticed that many stock simulator services don’t use real-time stock values, which can diminish the experience of actual trading. Our first meeting concluded with the decision to create a stock simulator that incorporates real-time stock value. Moving forward, our goal is to innovate our simulator to offer a distinctive and authentic trading service that stands out from existing services.

## How is this problem solved currently?
Other stock trading simulators exist, such as the Virtual Stock Exchange on MarketWatch, which simulate trading stocks and allow you to compete against others. However, many of the existing simulators may seem complicated for beginners to use and may confuse someone who does not have prior knowledge about the stock market or making investments. Conversely, some simulators are too simple, and do not contain certain useful features like real-time data. 

## How will this project make life better?
This project can simply be used as a real-time learning platform in which users can learn  and gain experience with investing and trading without any financial risks. Through the use of this application, users can gain valuable insight and education on financial management and making smart investments. This application can also offer an entertainment aspect as users can potentially compete with each other aside from learning the best ways to grow their wealth. This application can aid in strengthening the financial aspect of peoples' lives which leads to a happy and healthy lifestyle.

## Who is the target audience? Who will use your app or play your game?
Our target audience are primarily those who intend to learn about trading stocks, but do not have the means to purchase them, or do not want to risk their savings without having a firm grasp on the basics of stock trading. This is not aimed at children as a game, as we are using real live data and advanced tracking metrics. Instead, it is intended to be used as a practice tool before trading with real currency. We expect our demographic to be people of age 15-30 who are new to trading.

## Does this project have many individual features or one main feature (a possibility with many subproblems)? These are the ‘epics’ of your project
This project has a multitude of individual features which will allow users to immerse themselves in Stock Market related situations. Some of these features include managing user accounts and portfolios, showing real-time data for up to 50 different stock symbols, providing users the ability to track stock prices and get notified when a stock reaches a specific price target, purchasing and trading stocks with artificial currency, and visualizing historical stock data with charts and  graphs. Aside from these main features, we have conceptualized some additional features which may add a higher level of interest or appeal to the web-application, such as an email newsletter which users can subscribe to and receive weekly market-related news, a tour or tutorial for first-time users of the site, a learning hub with educational resources on stock investing, a user leaderboard which can add a layer of competition and achievement, and potentially, the inclusion of an A.I. chatbot which can analyze market trends and provide users with helpful tips for investing.

What are some sample stories/scenarios? For example, as a regular user of your site, what types of things can I do?  These are the ‘stories’ of your project
The stories of our project can include the following: Samuel wants to start trading stocks, but is worried about losing money. This application uses real-time stock data to simulate trading stocks and give the user experience, but at no risk to the user’s savings. Belle wants to be able to reset her password in case she forgets it, so this application will have the option to reset a user’s password provided they confirm it is them using their email. Gideon is too busy to check the website every day, but wants to buy a large amount of a certain stock when the price lowers. This application offers different ways for the user to set up a notification for a particular stock: by email, or with a pop-up notification when you log in.
